Update pump-1.8.1 (#2591)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/release-notes/pump-1.8.md

    parent: "Release Notes"
weight: 300
---
## 1.8.1

### Changelog

#### Fixed

> - Reverted a change from previous release that excluded GraphQL analytics records from tyk_analytics collection for Mongo Pump

Reviewer: do we have content in the docs that needs to be removed?

Author: @agata-wit @pvormste could you confirm?

Reviewer: @caroltyk this is still outstanding

Reviewer 2: We have discussed and think this is what it should read like. Is this ok?

```suggestion
- GraphQL analytics records were being excluded from the _tyk_analytics_ collection for Mongo Pump. This has been fixed so that GraphQL analytic records are now included as expected.
```

Author: @pvormste please help to confirm

Reviewer 3: @caroltyk jumping in here to help with this. Yes this copy looks good @dcs3spp

> - Fixed MongoDB connection issue when using a complex password (with mongo-go driver)

Author: Fixed MongoDB connection issue when using a password with URL escape characters (with mongo-go driver)

> - Fixed an issue that when processing an analytics record with an API name or path containing the -- separator used to join label values (e.g., web--test-beta), an "inconsistent label cardinality" error occurs and causes tyk pump to crash

Reviewer: what is the actual fix? can we explain it? We need to explain the issue and the solution

> - Fixed an issue that when processing an analytics record with an API name or path containing the -- separator used to join label values (e.g., web--test-beta), an "inconsistent label cardinality" error occurs and causes tyk pump to crash

Author: The solution for fix is difficult to explain in a release notes without going into details how the flow and code works: https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump/pull/603.

> - Fixed an issue that when processing an analytics record with an API name or path containing the -- separator used to join label values (e.g., web--test-beta), an "inconsistent label cardinality" error occurs and causes tyk pump to crash

Author: The suggestion is applied

> - Fixed an issue that when processing an analytics record with an API name or path containing the -- separator used to join label values (e.g., web--test-beta), an "inconsistent label cardinality" error occurs and causes tyk pump to crash

Reviewer: so for once, it doesn't say it's a Prometheus pump

> - Fixed an issue that when processing an analytics record with an API name or path containing the -- separator used to join label values (e.g., web--test-beta), an "inconsistent label cardinality" error occurs and causes tyk pump to crash

Reviewer: @caroltyk what is the fix? or what happens now after we fix it if I have`--`

> - Fixed an issue that when processing an analytics record with an API name or path containing the -- separator used to join label values (e.g., web--test-beta), an "inconsistent label cardinality" error occurs and causes tyk pump to crash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue in Prometheus pump when filtering fields , e.g. _API Name_, that contain `--` in their value. For example, `test--name`. Prometheus Pump filtered the field as two separate instances, e.g. `test` & `name`, instead of the expected `test--name`.
```

#### Updated

> - Updated the default Hybrid Pump RPC pool size from 20 to 5 connections in order to reduce default CPU and memory footprint

Reviewer: Can we link to the config page?

> - Updated the default Hybrid Pump RPC pool size from 20 to 5 connections in order to reduce default CPU and memory footprint

Author: @tbuchaillot have we update the config page with default value?

> - Updated the default Hybrid Pump RPC pool size from 20 to 5 connections in order to reduce default CPU and memory footprint

Reviewer 4: @caroltyk it's updated on the hybrid pump code config - I don't know if we already regenerate the docs cc @mativm02

> - Updated the default Hybrid Pump RPC pool size from 20 to 5 connections in order to reduce default CPU and memory footprint

Author: Checked it's there already. thanks.

### pumps.hybrid.meta.RPCPoolSize
EV: <b>TYK_PMP_PUMPS_HYBRID_META_RPCPOOLSIZE</b><br />
Type: `int`<br />

Hybrid pump connection pool size. Defaults to `5`.

> - Import and use latest storage library

Reviewer: Not sure I understand this sentence. Can we explain what storage lib means?

> - Updated default MongoDB driver to ‘mgo’

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated default MongoDB driver to `mgo`
```

Reviewer: what does this mean? are we changing the default? can we share the config section?

> - Pump name is now case-insensitive. It will override two or more pumps with same name but in different cases (e.g. “Mongo” / “mongo”)

Reviewer: do we have a clear and user-friendly error message for this?

Author: @mativm02

Reviewer: gotcha! thanks

    parent: "Release Notes"
weight: 300
---
## 1.8.1

{{< note >}}### Notes on MongoDB v5 and v6 compatibility

> For MongoDB v5 and v6 users, please [set mongo driver type](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump#driver-type) to 'mongo-go'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For MongoDB v5 and v6 users, please [set mongo driver type](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump#driver-type) to `mongo-go`.
```

> From 1.8.1, the default MongoDB driver it use is from [mgo](https://github.com/go-mgo/mgo). This is to align with default MongoDB driver of other Tyk components. This driver supports MongoDB versions up to v4. If you are using later version of MongoDB v5 or MongoDB v6, please [follow this guide to update the driver type](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump#driver-type) to [mongo-go](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver).

Reviewer: @caroltyk about `From pump v1.8.1, the default MongoDB driver it uses is [mgo]`  - did you mean to say that in  pump v1.8.1 we have a new config for the mongo drive and it is set to mgo?

{{< /note >}}

### Changelog

#### Fixed

> - Reverted a change from previous release that excluded GraphQL analytics records from tyk_analytics collection for Mongo Pump

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reverted a change from previous release that excluded GraphQL analytics records from `tyk_analytics` collection for Mongo Pump
```

> - Reverted a change from the previous release that excluded GraphQL analytics records from `tyk_analytics` collection for Mongo Pump

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- GraphQL analytics records were being excluded from the _tyk_analytics_ collection for Mongo Pump. This has been fixed so that GraphQL analytic records are now included as expected.
```

- Fixed MongoDB connection issue when using a password with URL escape characters (with mongo-go driver)
- Fixed an issue in Prometheus pump when filtering fields , e.g. _API Name_, that contain `--` in their value. For example, `test--name`. Prometheus Pump filtered the field as two separate instances, e.g. `test` & `name`, instead of the expected `test--name`.
- When [`omit_configfile`]({{< ref "tyk-pump/tyk-pump-configuration/tyk-pump-environment-variables.md#omit_config_file" >}}) is set to `true`, Pump will not try to load the config file and spit out error logs

#### Updated
- Updated the default Hybrid Pump RPC pool size from 20 to 5 connections in order to reduce default CPU and memory footprint. See [Pump configurations]({{< ref "tyk-pump/tyk-pump-configuration/tyk-pump-environment-variables.md#pumpshybridmetarpcpoolsize" >}})
- Import and use latest [storage library v1.0.5](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/storage/releases/tag/v1.0.5)
- Updated default MongoDB driver to `mgo`. [Follow this guide to update the driver type](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump#driver-type)

> - Pump name is now case-insensitive. It will override two or more pumps with same name but in different cases (e.g. “Mongo” / “mongo”)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pump name is now case-insensitive. It will override two or more pumps with the same name but in different cases (e.g. _Mongo_ / _mongo_)
```
